to the flag of the United States of
America
and to the Republic for religious fans
one nation under God indivisible with
liberty and justice
I need a motion to approve the agenda I
need to ask for a motion to modify the
agenda
Mr chairman I make a motion to modify
the agenda to bring item
5c to the place of 5A which would then
move 5A to 5B and 5B to 5c okay okay
I have a first and a second to modify
the agenda to bring uh
C to a all those in favor please say aye
aye
aye those opposed
okay the motion the motion is modified I
have a uh I need a motion to approve the
modified agenda
I make a motion to approve the modified
agenda
second okay I have a first and second to
approve the modified agenda all those in
favor say aye
aye aye those opposed
okay the agenda is modified
next up on the agenda is public comments
uh
on on agenda items and it's a limit of
two minutes per
person and if you have
um if you have
um
similar comments please group your
people together
if at all possible
no there's not that many there's not
that many okay first one up is Doug or
Maureen Patterson
yes
sure two minutes yeah Heavenly Father
think thank you so much for all the
blessings you've given us every day
thank you for this beautiful day that we
had today the weather please spread your
wings of wisdom and light to this
meeting let your light shine in Jesus
Christ's name we pray this
I'm going to read what Keith Rutledge
had answered some questions to the
spokesman review
Brandon was very clearly the most
qualified of the applicants for the
position is that agenda item
um it needs to be an agenda item it has
to do with the tax burden
which is finances well it has to be
specific to agenda item
District residents to fund some subjects
okay
I'll just do this later point of order
okay is it specific
is it it's got to be specific to the
agenda item
yeah
Okay so
be very clear if you speak out you're
going to be asked to leave
okay next up is Doug Patterson
so I um this is relative to the forensic
audit which is on the agenda and when I
was walking precincts
um prior to Levy vote people that
indicated that they were going to vote
against the levy the vast majority of
said they wanted to see an audit or a
real audit
um which which essentially translates to
forensic audit few who used that exact
phrase though
so thought that would be uh worth
knowing
good thank you
next up is Jared Hughes
it's like if I sit down and read this
okay sure okay
I want to start by making distinction in
my role today during negotiations
earlier my role was an employee who was
taught and coached in District for 25
years during this meeting I will be
speaking it's a lifelong resident
taxpayer and parent for two children in
the district
it is in this role I'm asking the board
majority to stop the insanity of
redundant expensive Audits and pass the
proposed budget presented last week you
all gave Direction and contributed to
the creation of this budget it is paid
for cutting two million dollars off the
fiscal year 23 and he always can be
amended you are holding up the business
of running a district and ultimate
victims are being the kids and parents
for longer you drag this out concerning
the audit here's an example of a board
member needing training and intelligence
not an audit this is from last time it
was most concerning when trustee Brown
was questioning payments to my wife
Faith Hughes asking if she even it was
an employee
this was this like most questions could
have been answered with a shorty deal to
Steffy or Susie but instead he brought
it up at this meeting not sure about
privacy laws but I'm checking into it to
answer your questions trustee Brown
the district has been able unable for
several years since kova to provide a
nurse paraprofessional and a decent life
or decent life skills teacher required
by the state and federal law for my
daughter's education she's now 12 life
skills and probably the most expensive
student that's good this district has
she requires 24-hour nursing care my
wife and I's parents have been trained
to take care of the medical needs for
this child
we have Night nurses we actually lost a
couple recently so that's kind of we're
hoping for more and the district's
supposed to provide a nurse one-on-one
and a regular life skills teacher for my
daughter due to low Medicaid
reimbursement and low salary schedule
they've been difficult to fill so for my
daughter to go to school to experience
School my wife has to take time off of
work to take Annika to school she is
technically a district employee and not
she get paid minimum wage half of what
she gets paid at the forest service
because the district can't provide it
for her she gets mileage the vendor
which you questioned in front of the
district because she can't ride a bus
without a nurse to summarize the
district is getting off paying pennies
for my daughter's Services because
you've been unable to provide the state
and federal Advantage Services maybe in
the future you can do your homework and
not try to play gotcha politics at board
meetings especially when the district is
skirting their duties for so many years
okay as of today thank you Mr Rutledge
thank you to Margie and thank you to
coach or trustee Barton for responding I
thank you for responding to that as of
right now I have not heard from trustee
Brown for these comments
I'm going to shorten this up a little
bit because I know I'm running out of
time besides fiscal responsibility
for the audit 30 to 50 000 for a frenzy
got it seventeen thousand to return
curriculum that they approved two
hundred thousand we could have levied in
this District because we had an increase
of enrollment of 200 students contrary
to public comment
250 to 300 000 for Levy relief but we
don't run a lot of yes time's up okay
thank you for your time
[Applause]
okay next up is
Whitney almond it's recruitment of new
staff that's not a it's not a um
okay
also it's Whitney Airman and I know you
know that
um I am a former teacher of the school
district you are on the agenda tonight
you are adding support staff for a
forensic audit first of all no one has
ever been against a forensic audit we
just think it's fiscally yours as
possible since a lot of people have been
criticizing our finances
um and we are now down 31 certificated
teachers that we are going to have to
figure out how to pay and uh recruit
um as a teacher who has been in this
District who is being
bullied so hilariously
um by Idaho Freedom Foundation I am
concerned that teachers are not going to
want to come to this District
um at risk of their entire lives being
uncovered and being blasted on the
internet
um and it's really really scary to think
that our kids could not have teachers
and I'm hoping that when you're hiring
people in the office you're also
thinking about how we're going to fill
our schools thanks
foreign
Brumley
my name is Marilee Brimley I don't think
many people have a problem with a
forensic audit if it is warranted I have
seen no actual evidence of the need for
this audit I know the district is
audited by the state every year I know
independent CPAs have looked over the
online postings and found nothing what
have they missed please enlighten me
with some facts is an audit worth tons
tens of thousands of dollars to possibly
find nothing also why would the district
need to hire temporary help to Aid in
this audit it seems to me any
self-respecting accounting firm would
bring their own staff not hire people
from the business they are auditing I
don't understand that why is the budget
being proposed by the superintendent
with less than a week of working
knowledge of this district from the
research I've done he has no accounting
degree or experience the only business
he's run has failed we had a proposed
budget made with the board's Direction
by the district business manager in time
to be submitted to the state but the
same board who gave the direction
wouldn't approve it in my opinion it
should have been submitted and then
amended if necessary
why do we need to hire more district
office staff when we have 30 more 30
plus vacant positions district-wide that
aren't being filled when I looked on the
district website today the majority
aren't even posted how can you get the
quality staff you claim you want if you
wait forever to post the jobs maybe you
have a problem with the people holding
some of the jobs like I used to tell my
kids when they played basketball you
don't have to sit with them on the bus
or in the bleachers but you better pass
them the ball if they're open in life
you need to learn to get along with
people I find your open meeting law
statement laughable you have broken an
open meaning law before during or after
every meeting I've attended I also find
your slanderous comments appalling
just because no one will do anything
about your broken rules doesn't mean
they aren't happening finally you're
posting for a school district if you are
going to put people's names on your
agenda spell them correctly the first
superintendent's name was Jacqueline
Branham with an M thank you
next up is Katie of el sazer
don't hold them again so I don't I don't
mind everyone butchers it it's fine
uh first I want to start with thanking
the board for putting the public comment
on the agenda and I hope that giving
everyone a chance to actually speak will
lead to a bit more productive meetings I
think I appreciate the effort
um I'm speaking on the hiring of
additional District staff for the uh
forensic audit I think that is something
that should not come from within the
district if an audit firm comes and
States they need more assistance that
would make sense but you're basically
hiring someone which then you lose all
you lose all unbiased neutral concept of
a forensic audit I understand that
sometimes audits can be extremely
difficult and time consuming for staff
but they go they're they're used to it
because they do go through an audit
every year they go through it those
those companies come in and sit through
them and pull the documents so it would
be the same situation additionally I'm
curious on how you're going to go about
the forensic audit budget have you
talked to firms and got an idea are you
sending out for proposals I think if you
would just make sure when you discuss
that tonight you actually discuss it
with all of us I think it'd be better
we'd feel a lot more comfortable if more
information was given and not just a
vote made if discuss the actual items on
there I disagree with the commentary on
the chairman about the open law by legal
counsel making a comment if legal
counsel did make that opinion was it
shared with other board members they are
client the the councils for them as well
so was that communication sent along
with that because I feel like putting
people's names on an agenda like that
seems very targeted and not the
cohesiveness for a board
additionally on the budget for the
forensic where are you guys proposing
the funds coming out of it and are you
going to set a parameter when you do the
proposals of their criteria and
everything on there just if you guys
could just be very clear during your
discussions of what criteria you put
forth I think that would make everyone
feel a little bit better about the cost
if they know those parameters being put
in place
um
and
also the budget from the proposed the
temporary budget that should be out for
public to review just the other budget
as soon as it was put together it was
put out for the public where the public
could review it before the public
commentary if the superintendent has put
together a temporary budget it shouldn't
be a secret it should be available with
the agenda for people to review I don't
think that's a high bar so I appreciate
it and I'm probably out of time to think
we let it goes over I appreciate that
[Applause]
next up Candace Turner
I am not sure who you're getting your
information from
but when I and others started the
successful recall proceedings it wasn't
over
a number of things that you board
members blatantly did wrong
it wasn't about a forensic audit that
you put in the paper
we didn't care about the friends that
got it we have asked you a number of
times I personally have asked you a
number of times if you've got evidence
then go to the prosecuting attorney and
bring it forward
so it wasn't about that that's not what
the recall is it's about the disrespect
that you have shown this community of
any discussion when we ask for
discussion it's about information that
you're putting out there that is false
okay no personal tax I'm not personally
this is about a forensic audit
so the people in the Priest River have
come forward with a recall on you it has
nothing to do with your
and I want to know who are the economic
significant economic advantages for the
levy who was going to get get that
economic
advantage
because we passed by the passing order
that's fine I don't care I'll put it out
in the paper
all right
[Applause]
Sammy Brower
I did say that people were speaking out
you would
and
it doesn't just go for me it doesn't
just go for me
okay
agenda item five eight I think I might
be out of order because you moved him
around but agenda item 5A I would urge
you to reconsider higher in temporary
staff to help with a forensic audit the
process has been used as a tool to
slander discredit cast out and hold the
district and Community hostage for far
too long members of the board have used
allegations of misappropriation of fund
and corrupt and inaccompetent management
of former and current staff for far too
long hire The Firm already let them do
the investigation without friends a
family of board destroying and or
planting evidence that would be the
perception if you hire somebody that
will be the perception
um
in an article today board chairs said we
are recalling him a desperate effort to
prevent an audit Mr chair you are off
base
this audit will not this audit will take
place with or without you here if
there's evidence of of misappropriation
of funds the audit is going to go on
whether you're sitting in that chair or
not
you should be recruiting teachers not
temporary staff to ensure your
allegations are founded agenda item 5c I
support the hiring of a board clerk but
wonder why it was would it say temporary
unless something unethical is about to
take place later in this meeting why are
we needing temporary office staff as
well why is this an agenda item hiring
for vacancies is not usually required to
be approved for by the board I smell
something here it doesn't smell good
agenda 5D the language used to describe
the agenda item is unnecessary and
inflammatory is the intention of the
board chair to oppress board members
that have a difference of opinion by
publicly denouncing them
the board share recently an email to me
indicated board members were not acting
in good faith and that they intended to
act
unilaterally to advance a political
agenda I agree with you but it's not the
board members you're talking about
um please please I urge you don't burn
our house down on your way out
um
do not destroy us to advance your
political agenda for us this has nothing
to do with politics
this has nothing to do with the forensic
audit this is our home these are our
people
please resign
[Applause]
next up Kylie heifer
hi Kylie Huffer again um with a budget
for the forensic audit I think that 2030
however many thousands of dollars is
going to cost would be better spent
towards our school resource officer
um again I want our children to be safe
and
if we could allocate those funds to
something more useful that would be
great
um
sorry I just lost my train of thought
um and again you get private security
and our kids like I have to worry about
my poor little daughter possibly like
the school getting shut up and then
nobody's gonna be there like is that
gonna be great for these kids okay
thanks
[Applause]
all right next up is new business
for a minute agenda
um
I need a motion to approve
oh I'm sorry
got yours right here sorry
next up Paul Turco
okay I'm gonna edit on the fly to pick
out some of my personal attacks
I read a letter today by the chairman in
today's minor and I hope the community
members took the advice and are watching
because I feel like they're being lied
to
you claim that we'll do anything to stop
a forensic audit when in reality we
begged you to do one months before the
levy was to be presented you didn't do
it then because you wouldn't be able to
be deceitful and spread information and
create doubt before the Lefty vote
you didn't do it then because there's
nothing there the only reason you want
to do it now is spread more lies and
spend more of what little money the
district has
you lied when you said a four-day
schedule would help retain teachers you
lied when trustee Barton called you out
when you manipulated Brandon contract
after committee negotiations
Mr Durst you lied when you claimed to
have completed superintendent training
when you did not you lied for employment
the night the board voted you in and
lying makes you illegitimate
trustee Reinbold last week you started
to vote with your head and heart but you
got scolded like a pet dog and changed
your vote that's enough you told me you
were an honest man you're done you are
who you're associated with and these
guys are lying to the district to you
they're manipulating everybody
it's not right what they're doing you
may agree with what some of the stuff
they're not said but it's not the way to
do it I learned in public school leave
what's right and wrong and that's more
important Sheriff please any music test
scores that can be manipulated
please we move in they're doing it wrong
you have the most biggest responsibility
right now the next few weeks are on you
Troy
make sure you can live with yourself man
because you don't have to vote on their
political agenda anymore
be honest with what you are we know
you're honest vote with your head and
heart do the right thing what they're
doing is not right
[Applause]
[Laughter]
okay moving to new business
I need a motion
for
item now it's a for hiring temporary
board clerk district office support
Mr chairman I make a motion speak up
please sorry
Mr chairman I make a motion to consider
what would now be uh 5A
okay
um I have a I have a motion on the floor
do I have a second
it's a proof it's a proof
approval and hiring temporary board
clerk I'll second the emotion
okay
trustee trustee Hall seconds emotion
debate
I would like a presentation to clarify
further what this is about and I believe
this was um
do we have any more information than
just saying what we just said
okay
um so I'd like to have that presented to
myself in the public yeah would you
please go there trustee Hall I
appreciate the question so the just so
the just so the public is aware uh
Steffy Pavey
um
resigned his board clerk effective June
30th so we do not currently have a board
clerk for this meeting and so we need to
have that position opened up for
announcement be given the time that we
have I went out and recruited somebody
that could fill the position temporarily
um and uh it's and the idea being that
we would have somebody who wasn't
um who wasn't going to be needing wasn't
going to be applying for the job later
so we wouldn't give any unfair advantage
to one candidate over another and it's
somebody that I I know will do the job
well and so part of the idea too is and
and trustee Hall just so you're aware
part of the idea obviously as you know
we've talked about this the board clerk
position is hired by the board and in
the office staff is hired by the
superintendent and so just just in the
name of transparency I thought it'd be
wise for us to do this an open meeting
um but I have I have a contract uh
Temporary Employment contract typed up
and ready to go and I think we should um
thank you
I think we certainly should try to fill
this position uh with a full-time
permanent person as soon as possible but
given the lack of notice that we had in
terms of of needing to fill this role we
need to act judiciously so that we can
continue to provide the service to the
patrons that they need do we have a name
I mean he said yes yes yes yes
and she's here her name is Brandy parody
um and so I she's here she's she's
worked in this sort of stuff she hasn't
been a board clerk before but I'm happy
to help train her for the next couple
weeks
I believe
no you're leaving
and Pastor please remove her
name is Brandy parody
was Brandy or Randy Randy with a B Perry
parody parody yes and is she in the
district she she owns property in the
district she lives just on the other
side of the County Line
and Brandy is here if you want to have
her make an introduction if you want to
yield the floor to her trustee Hall
she'd be willing I think she'd be
willing to introduce herself
superintendenters I'd like to review the
contract and sure maybe some
clarification on her um
sure thing her qualifications
so
um
do next
there's a policy for hiring but you're
violating
so this again is a sign of corruption
you are a liar you
sorry
[Applause]
okay that one goes to
at what point will she go under a
criminal background check before she
starts she would need to start that
immediately
give it uh trustee Hall if if it's okay
I would just point out that um
she would need to start that she would
need to apply for that but given that
she's not going to be interacting with
any students in the in the immediate
term
that I think that we would be able to
just bring her on in a temporary basis
and then and then go through that
process wait I would be concerned what
I'm concerned about is having access to
employee files right and I would I would
make sure it concerns me yes
and I would say that and I would say
that she would not have access to those
until that's done
you have to have Equal Opportunity
Employment where you have to have
applications of at least two to three
people you have to have a hiring
committee which of course you're the
board but you guys have not committed to
hired does that make sense I'm asking it
declaration I can I can click that okay
yeah so I can I can Jared I can answer
that question so the board policy allows
our 5200 Personnel policies allow for
the filling of vacancies and because all
employment at the classified level
classified level are at will
we're doing this in a temporary basis
and so that's why if you look at the if
you were seeing the contract I just
shared with trustee Barton the temporary
contract does not it's not benefits
accruing it is also not it also States
clearly that this position is temporary
and will be terminated as soon as her
permanent replacement is found if we're
going to go we do need to go through a
full hiring process you're absolutely
right
we could just as but from a from a legal
HR standpoint because we're going to be
directing the hours of of work we're not
allowed to call this person an
independent contractor because that
would be a violation of of employment
law so in the near in the near term we
are allowed to hire people on a
short-term basis to provide work for the
district in the same way that we would
be able to hire somebody you know in any
capacity outside of the certified space
for a short-term space so but I
appreciate the question
there's no um
there I'm confident that none of those
things would would transpire in this and
if if it comes up yes yeah of course
absolutely
not contaminated okay
what quality controls you have to make
sure
first of all that's my background check
because they made you know I'm just
trying to make sure you guys so let's
make sure let's let's make sure we're
talking about the same thing because
because it sounds like we're maybe
mixing a couple different agenda items
here and Mr determine if it's okay if I
continue to respond
um so the
this person is working as district
office support so we don't currently
have someone working during the summer
to provide support to patrons that come
in that's number one we also don't
currently have a clerk and given the
amount of things that we have to get
accomplished in the next two months
you've already heard several people talk
about the number of recruitments we have
to do it's not fair to ask our current
staff to be doing those additional stuff
to do that to do those additional
um responsibilities plus their current
job which is already going to be hard
enough and so what we're looking to do
is just provide some support temporarily
until we can fire somebody on a
full-time basis to be able to fill in
um so that's
somebody else offered their services
I don't I don't think so and I'll tell
you why because I it's this is
ultimately a position that reports that
this this is a position that reports
directly to the board and this one that
reports directly to me and so to the
extent that I want to have somebody
who's working directly for me that I
no we'll follow my Direction that's very
important
border
nope yep
okay
any further
debate
um we're looking at the contract I do
want to just sort of say one thing when
I looked at the policies
the hiring policies and Susan I would
like to look at it after you
um
51 5100 underboard action
the superintendent has the authority to
implement an alternative hiring
procedure when he she deems it necessary
in the best interest of the district so
there is I want to say there is a kind
of caveat out a little bit so that um
the superintendent has the authority to
temporarily employ certified and
classified employees pending
confirmation by the the Board of
Trustees
um it's it's employee certified and
classified employees so I did look this
up there is sort of an emergency
provision on this
um just so people know but I do want to
look at the contract I do want to put a
time limit on the contract
um so that if we did you know if we are
looking at approving it I would want to
put a time limit so then that we would
follow
um the process the normal process of
hiring the normal hiring procedures this
is only a temporary
in some ways this is a temporary Gap
because as we know Steffy has been doing
triple double time and we have to have a
board Clerk and
um so we just we need to at least look
at that temporary fulfillment
and I would want to limit
access to employee files and only be in
this case maybe answering phones doing
minimal
um things in the office and only under
the you know and working with um
with the board but there's a whole thing
a board Clerk or board books and
everything else that has to be known and
the person is going to have to follow
Idaho code and board clerk
responsibilities and our policies and
procedures
and trustee health is the just that you
probably saw that in the contract that
it was specifically states that the
contract will terminate as soon as a
full-time replacement is hired um and I
would like to try to put a deadline on
that I'd like I'd like us to hire
somebody sooner than later so if we want
to put a date certain in there that's
that sounds that's I think that's that's
definitely advisable okay and I ca um I
can't see
my yeah I think my intention would be
just to answer your question I
appreciate that my intention would be to
immediately post this position and
hopefully have it fill within the next
month
because I I don't I don't want to have
this stringing on I'd like to have
somebody who can come in and start
taking on the full responsibilities of
the role and I've already worked with HR
to start getting the job announcement
posted we haven't posted it yet because
I don't have approval of the board to do
that but as soon as it is we'll we'll
get it out there so we can get a higher
on a full-time basis
you're welcome
um superintendent Durst yes I did look
at the contract I agree we definitely
need to send maybe a 30 day okay that's
right time frame yeah and I am firmly
going to suggest she gets a background
check just to protect us I agree and
everyone else that is or has relations
in that district office to protect our
kids to protect us yeah so we need a
background check in 30 days if we want
to put an addendum on that I think
that's I think that would that's
appropriate
and I'm I'm just looking I skipped over
me to trustee Brown
or vice chair Brown
um
and I apologize I didn't email this to
the entire board I was afraid of being
accused of a serial meeting if I had
done that so
chairman Rutledge it may be advisable
this to go to recess for five minutes so
that the trustees can look at that
chairman calls for a five minute recess
so like we'll let you do it but I just
want to put an addendum on there that
says
just because you can't even walk into
the classroom
so the background check I think is
a pretty simple process so we'll get
fingerprinted you know get started on it
yeah
I'd like to have a
permanent person in place with them but
this is a win-win for us because then
she can volunteer in the district or she
can be a part of the district and so the
other thing that if it is
right now
um
foreign
I'm still working on the side
I'm sorry
it's a pretty standard contract it's
actually overly thorough
but that's because that's how
contractions to cover every possible
outcome right
right
foreign
okay
sort of the hiring things
like I said the guy from Pride daily is
like he said if you can get something to
put all the stuff together for us and a
nice compilation it's easy for us to
read it makes us go a lot faster it
saves you a lot of money
yeah
that's okay
I'm thinking the same thing can get
pretty far
I left my glass in the car
Your Surrender soda
that's what we call Lacroix surrender
soda
because that's French
that's what happens when you're
the German family
I think we're okay we're fine yeah thank
you
it's all the Finish
it's a long contract
there's only like three paragraphs that
really
the important stuff the rest of it's
like
you're not going to do this if you
create something you're going to give a
test you're not going to share anything
that you see you're gonna
so this will come out up so this is
going to do four things
dispatcher for the transportation
so temporary hire of Brandy parody
all right
meetings back in session
further debate
no I'll make a motion but with the
addendums included in that motion
to the contract
the addendum
with looking at several addendums that
this this contract would not go into
effect prior to a successful background
check criminal background check that it
would have be terminated 30 days or
before
and that the um that the employee must
follow
policy 5325 which is employee use of
social media sites including personal
sites well under this contract
and I will make a motion to approve it
based on that those items on the addenda
an addendum to this contract
okay
all right the first and the second on on
the amended contract
all those in favor say aye aye those
opposed okay the contract is adopted
with the amendments
okay next up is uh
I need a motion for
consideration and approval of scope and
design and budgeting of a forensic audit
um with an RFP uh
um designed by the superintendent with
the hiring of a temporary staff to
assist
okay
and make a motion to consider the
approval or excuse me to cut for
consideration and approval of a scope of
design and budgeting for the forensic
addict as presented by the
superintendent of hiring a tempering
staff to assist in completing a forensic
audit okay but first do I have a second
I guess I wanna I got a question
well
in a sec okay I have a first and the
second I'm going to need debate
would you please clarify Mr chairman and
I appreciate the questions that were
asked because I know there were several
I mean I'll
uh a motion to bring it
so let me let me so there are several
questions that were asked by during
public comment that I think needs to be
addressed so when I I reached out to
several um forensic auditing firms
National firms and to help with the
beginning outline of a scope of this
forensic audit just knowing that it was
something that was going to be on the
board agenda and when I had the
conversation with the manager for ID
Bailey for the western United States who
does all their
um
uh forensic audits for school districts
um he made a couple of recommendations
and and one of them that he recommended
he said one of the things that drives
costs up the most
is when a district does not provide us
documentation in an organized and
thorough manner he said because then we
have to chase things and that's very
difficult
he recommended that
he said obviously you don't have to hire
us but he said I imagine all of our
peers would feel the same way it would
be very helpful that if you don't have
the he said to have someone in your
office dedicated to compiling all these
records now obviously we don't have
anybody in her staff right now who's
capable of doing that
I also uh that does that has that would
have the bandwidth not not they don't
have the ability but they wouldn't have
the time to do it and so
um
what I've what I've proposed what I'm
what I'm going to recommend to the board
is that and I've identified someone
who's outside of the district who has no
vested interest in this District's you
know finances
to be able to provide those Services who
does this professionally to does these
sorts of things so that that we can save
money on the actual audit itself because
um again going looking at the looking at
the the professional recommendation of
those who do this work
um and the fact that I think we also
want to make sure that we're not
um spending money that doesn't need to
be spent I would also add that one of
the other recommendations that we had
from from the individual from Mike
Bailey was that we take a two-step
approach that we have a preliminary
report and then at that point after the
preliminary report is given to the board
that it is decided if they want to do a
further investigation and that would
also limit the potential fiscal impact
to the district so that way they could
say you know depending upon the
information that they've reviewed and
collected they'd be able to say this is
worth further investigation or
we don't think we're going to find
anything else you may as well stop it
here so that way we have some defined
boundaries as to what we're looking at
and my goal would be to try to limit the
cost to this as much as we possibly can
and that's one of the reasons that I'm
recommending that we do have somebody
that's external to the district that
helps provide those documents to the to
the and provides as a point of contact
to whoever we select through our RFP
process
um
which of course the board
will need to improve at a later date
several questions sure um
I did several hours of looking into
forensic audit on I hate to say it
um
unlike chair Rutledge was pointing out
I'm not against a forensic audit I sort
of I deeply
um
offended by the article or the letter to
the editor signed by the chair of the
board
saying that I was trying to do the
recall because of the forensic audit I
have done several things I talked I
reached out to Edie Bailey I looked at I
looked at possibilities around the
country I I researched school districts
doing forensic audits I would strongly
given I know what everybody talked about
but I would strongly recommend that we
limit the scope I looked at one that I
really like that said this is from the
forensic audit from Cumberland Ohio the
school district over there in Hancock
Hancock County Board of Education did do
a forensic audit they limited with the
first cost no more than five thousand
dollars and they said and then they look
to see if there was anything there their
findings many of the findings are
nothing but I hate to say it given what
we're running into every time with a
levy and I know that that you know we
can go back and forth who's right who's
wrong
I am looking at doing a narrow a
preliminary scope of of an audit no more
than five thousand
limiting it doing a preliminary and then
also Edie Bailey had a great checklist
that the name of that checklist
was seems like it was written for us
fraud prevention and detection
checklists were organizations with
limited segregation of duties
and it basically you went down through
this and you could say yes or no do is
this happening or this not happening and
what I would strongly suggest is maybe
looking at that checklist
identifying ones that we said
are there transfers to unknown accounts
yes then identify the ones that we need
to maybe do a deeper dive on but I'm
tired tired tired of being the school
district being under the gun under the
microscope getting us into you know
having us go against each other and so
I would look at and I understand what Mr
Durst who Contender said about bringing
in somebody outside I would want to know
who that is name is because it has to be
it has to be neutral it has to be
neutral and if and if it's not if if
there's an if there's an impression that
it's not then that person does not is
not the right person
so that's my and I again I am very I'm
insulted I have tried my best yes I've
done you know maybe you're not agreeing
with certain things but to say that I am
doing what I can against this forensic
audit I'm I would challenge any of the
members on this board to have done the I
spent my birthday doing this the other
day and I did hours before that so
please do not do not do not make
allegations against me when they're not
true thank you
[Applause]
statement of clarification on the
article guest opinion recall and attempt
to prevent audit by Keith Rutledge
chairman West Bonner County School
District Board of Trustees that is us we
are united in the article I quote it
says going forward I urge every District
resident to watch the board meetings
closely as trustee Hall and Barton will
attempt every trick in the book to
discredit the board and delay the
forensic audit until after the recall
just for clarification first of all
um the recall has nothing to do with the
audit
or to prevent it you're not representing
your zones that's why you were recalled
[Applause]
as in here it says guest opinion I don't
care if you write an article Don't
title it
chairman representing West Bonner County
School District Board of Trustees you
called us out on this in public and
there's no need to do that
I am okay with the friends that got it I
have no problem with that the problem I
have is with it it's going to cost us
Thirty to fifty thousand dollars if we
can do a narrowed scope and do it go for
it
we spent nine work sessions countless
hours
on the budget we didn't find anything
nothing
have your friends that got it do it
narrow the scope try to keep the budget
down
a thousand dollars is what eight
parapro would make in our district for a
whole year
okay well further making accusations
with two of your board members that's
pretty divisive pretty divisive very
disappointing fourth I'm not against the
forensic on it again
just the Hefty sound that it's going to
cost our district remember we're a unit
not individuals don't sign my name to
something that I don't agree with I
don't care if you write the paper it's
an opinion paper don't write it signed
boy to trustees
remember
I would like to be copied in from now on
on any of our lawyers
communication with you or anyone else in
here it is our lawyer we should all be
included enough
I say go for the forensic audit narrow
the scope get an outside bid we have to
find somebody that will be effective
efficient and will represent us well
thank you
[Applause]
as a parent
there's no comments right now I got a
question
no comments right now please
no questions right now no comments
Judah really liked my colleague
you would have really liked it
so just a follow-up
Brandon did you find did you get a sense
of what I mean would would five up to
five thousand dollars give us initials
kind of an initial to be really
Frank I I don't think that would get us
anywhere
um
I don't here's what I think would happen
is if we cap it at that amount I don't
think we're going to get very many
responsive bids
um and that would be my concern I
understand uh trustee Hall your point
about trying to limit the fiscal impact
as much as possible but I also
I also wonder if what the utility is if
we're not getting or getting responsive
bids from Auditors that we would be
interested in hiring
um and if you look at if you look at
these National firms like Ernst young or
Deloitte or
um I'd Bailey or anything like that
they're not gonna they're not gonna it's
not worth their time to respond to a RFP
for five thousand dollars well what I
would suggest is that there be maybe
three look at what they would call would
charge for a preliminary because I'm not
approving the final contract until we
see it yeah right um but this is
basically approving an RFP to go out for
a forensic audit that's my understanding
correct I would limit it saying what
would it cost to do a preliminary
um a preliminary
in search based on the checklist right
um and then what would the next step be
I don't want to give this anybody an
open checkbook doesn't matter who the H
it is yeah and I think it needs to be
the other thing is I mean if nothing is
found if no misappropriations is found
and it is it's procedural I mean I guess
my question is where does
where is there any indication that
people are saying that they're concerned
about specifically and can we start
with both the checklist and that I mean
there's been things floating around in
papers and I think people need to stop
you know we need to discuss these things
out and open
um I I there's supposedly a group of
people who have been meeting with the
board chair and the vice chair regarding
the potential concerns about the
finances I think that all needs to be
disclosed
um but I would start with a here's phase
one phase two phase three what can you
give me and and uh trustee Hall I think
that's that was my intention with how I
was going to structure the RFP was going
to have
um responsive bidders identify bits per
for each phase and identify what the
scope of each one of those was would be
and then also say you know the
advancement to in another phase would
again require an additional
vote of the board to to authorize this
the disbursement of those funds or the
authorization for once the audit's
complete to disperse additional funds
and then I would want to find out from
them obviously the time frame I did see
different time frames in this and very
often I mean I saw that obviously
they'll be following the uh forensic
statement on standards for forensic
Services the American Institute of
certified public accountants the code of
Professional Standards of Association of
certified fraud examiners I'm guessing
that they'll be doing that but they're
obviously this one that was five
thousand dollars was just
that article was well it was a couple
years ago was 219 so it's probably a
little bit more but I definitely don't
want to give an open checkbook given the
constraints but I want this behind us
yeah
I don't want to I don't want the
community to keep coming back and saying
do this and I hate to being pushed to
that extent but it just is it's a point
of we're spending more money fighting
this and not you know getting through
the levy when we need critical dollars
and I unfortunately I see that this is
going to be a necessity
so the direction I hear and just to make
sure the board is the direction I hear
from you trustee Hall is to make sure
that we have this be a multi-phase
approach that's we Define our scope in
each phase so that that way it allows
for the for the responsive bidders to be
able to provide an accurate bed based
off of those things and obviously
obviously the board can review the bids
once that's done to approve the actual
hiring of the of the contractor
is that that's it I I would say so and I
think it's premature to hire the
temporary person until we figure out who
the forensic auditor is so you've
requested
you've I think there needs to be an RFP
going out to the front to to get to with
the scope and the design and you know of
the forensic audit I don't think we need
to hire temporary staff at this point in
time until we get those rfps back and we
see who we've got and maybe maybe one of
them doesn't need it you know maybe some
I would wait that it seems to be jumping
before the the cart before the horse to
hire a temporary staff at this point
until we see what we get to choose the
forensic auditor and then make that
decision at the same time that we
approve the contract I guess and I
trustee I'll appreciate that I think one
of the one of the things that I was
looking at is trying to be as
expeditious on this as we could be and
if we know that we're going to need to
be able to
um
we're going to need to start creating a
record of of transactions or whatever it
is that we can do that in the interim
while we're waiting for that RFP to be
approved so that way we can as soon as
the RFP is approved that we can hit the
ground running I would I would disagree
because you may you you haven't had a
forensic Auditor in the office deciding
doing some preliminary discussions okay
and they and that you may be spending
your time you know if especially if you
they ran through this checklist that
Edie Bailey has they may be going you
know and they did that as an initial or
they've got their own checklist they may
be going down one way and you may be
going down the other way and you're
spending time somebody's spending time
and money doing that when you shouldn't
be doing that but I would do that parent
to God at first because we don't want
outside
people in that temporary staff person
would also have to go through a
background check we don't want it a
temporary person coming in doing looking
through documents that aren't necessary
that we don't we know we don't know
right then and there that we need to
have them look at
the lawyer that we do hire they meet
just for this limited amount I've been
researching some of them will send in
their own person to come in and pull the
documents that they need so I would have
to agree with trustee Hall I think we
get the scope and sequence do your steps
get it approved get it going find
somebody and then see what they would
like us to do
I think there'd be a lot of people
that would be in favor of that and like
there would be an emotion to approve
your going my motion would be to approve
your going out and designing a forensic
audit a motion an RFP for a forensic
accountant and and to define the scope
and design and I get and doing it phase
one two and three or
um on sort of having those those who are
experts in the field break it down into
different phases that they think is are
most appropriate and having dollar
amounts which each of those phases and
that we then look at we approve phase
one or phase two as if there were an
architectural
as we've done with architectural designs
I know people think we went over and
above but we did something similar
okay
so is there a motion on the table I'll
make I'll make a motion to proceed with
developing and releasing a request RFP
for a forensic auditor okay
okay I have a motion from trustee Hall
do I have a second I'll second I have a
second from uh trustee rainbow all those
in favor of of
uh approving superintendent to write an
RFP for forensic audit with phase gates
to be approved by the board is that
correct and he has I would say he has my
part of that motion would be to go ahead
and release the RFP out and circulate it
okay
the RFP to circulate all those in favor
say aye aye aye those opposed okay the
motion carries
okay
next up is consideration and approval of
a temporary budget as proposed by the
superintendent
I need a motion to approve the budget
I'll bring I'll make a motion to bring
the budget to the table okay
okay second the consideration okay I
have a second for consideration debate
would you like to speak to it chairman
Mr chairman members of the board I just
so we're all clear what's happening here
so that and I'll make sure the public is
aware too the the board negotiation team
is still in negotiations with our
association and
while I really appreciate the work
that's been done by the business manager
prior to this point
um I also don't want to circumvent that
negotiations process and so
um
what I what I'm recommending that we do
and this is again I I have fall I have
all expectations that we'll be back here
in two or three weeks for advising this
budget with the final budget but we need
to get something done so it's on the
record so that we can start paying our
bills and make sure that we have the
ability to start hiring staff
um so what this does is it it's it's
identical to the um
the prior budget that was proposed with
one exception which is rather than an
automatic 10 increase in the base for
our salary for for our certified staff
this is a three and a half percent uh
increase pending further negotiation
from the association and obviously if
that number could change based on how
the how that that negotiation process
works out but this gives us a base base
budget to be working with and like I
said it's it's fully my intention that
this is not the final budget that we
have but we have to have something and
um
uh uh our business manager did check
with the Department of Education and
they confirmed that there's no legal
implication for us or for you approving
a budget that's materially different
than the one that was posted in the
newspaper that was something that that
trustee Hall had asked me about and that
was a legitimate concern and so
apparently
our business manager had previously
checked into that question and that she
was told that wasn't an issue so
um
it's my recommendation that this budget
be adopted on a temporary basis and then
pending the finalization of the
association's negotiation with our with
our negotiations team and the approval
of that negotiation uh with the board
and so once we do that then we can make
I think then you guys can
revise this budget to reflect that
negotiated agreement
okay
further comment
s
yes oh sorry I thought that can that can
that be shown up on the um can that be
displayed
yes please
negotiated with or does that make sense
you you cannot negotiate
negotiate a budget that is
if you change it
because that cuts in the negotiated
agreement and negotiating power of our
unit and I just want to make sure yeah
because I
when you guys lose that agreement
because we can't
by law you know we have
to do that
make sure you don't lock in a number
because that's the negotiation that's
outside the realm of this budget process
and that makes sense something you can
put in there you know
through allocations and effective
salaries or something
something Mr chairman just said
Mr chairman what were what were
attempting to do here is to make the
money that was left that was unallocated
was put into contingency so it could be
reallocated back to salaries if that's
where the negotiation team ends up
there's nothing in this budget that
specifically calls out what a percentage
increase is that is still pending
I'm telling you how the number was
calculated but there's nothing in the
budget that specifically calls it out
and so
what I'm what I'm saying is that there's
nothing here that's binding on the
negotiation on the on the negotiated
agreement that the union has with with
the board and so
there'd be no basis for a grievance from
the from from the association because
it's still going to be
based on
whatever the negotiated agreement is
it's signed by the board and the union
that's what that will be the
um
that will be the the operating document
by which the budget will have to reflect
and limiting our negotiating
so the alternative is to put zero in
salaries and just say we're going to
wait see what the negotiation says
what I'm saying is so there has to be
and I I hear what you're saying what I'm
telling is that there's there has to be
a number in the salary in that salary
number
right
correction
with
our allocations for salaries for the
state our allocations from
and in good faith discussions as
approval right and so
you would actually get your proposing
less than our new allegations
and our salaries for salaries of
benefits in here
so this proposed budget is in compliance
with with the state law just so we're
clear
so I believe
but I want to make sure that you're
protected trustees
agreements because if it comes out
we hear that
we've broken negotiations
because your negotiation started
two weeks and so I know it's part of
course like we've been talking about all
night but I want to make sure the board
is protected and it's better protected
if you keep it as is because the board
created this through the directive and
now it's being amended
I want to make sure that we keep it the
way it was it doesn't affect the
business it's awesome and all the
revenues and
revenues and expenditures are covered
within our
salaries and benefits allocations state
federal funding and through general fund
balances and
so the money is there
taking it away from something you guys
already already directed us to do
basically is that
and so if you want to continue that
let me just let me just interject
no agreement has been made between the
board and the union none any per any
nope let's stop any because I want to
get this on the record because this is
this is very important
this is very important this is this is
very important there's nothing on the
record right now that's a that's a
that's a it's an offer to the Union in
terms of the salaries and benefits for
next school year nothing there's no
record that's been made that says that
any preliminary discussions are all are
just that they're preliminary any
proposed budgets are just that proposed
they are not binding and so just to make
it really clear because I want to make
sure that we're if we're talking about
grievances that we get this out on the
record because it's very important there
is no there was not a an official offer
made and until such time as the board
makes had an official offer
that nothing is binding I appreciate
what you're saying but at the end of the
day the board has the board is the only
statutorily empowered or uh entity that
can make a decision about what abort
what what the budget says and what it
doesn't say and to the extent that
you're still in the middle of
negotiations and the those negotiations
have not completed
again this number Canon probably will
change
but to the to the extent that the Board
needs to pass a budget today to be in
compliance with state law we are stuck
with a situation where we have to make a
decision it's not negotiating in bad
faith it's saying here's our base that
we're working from and we're going to go
back to the negotiating table with the
with the association and continue to
negotiate the salaries and benefits
does that make sense yeah
yes that's the idea
yes
because the money is there the
expenditures and revenues have been
proven
this is going to be in good faith now
and
bringing the community together and the
T staff together
further position
Mike right in that Division and I'm
hoping you guys understand it's not you
could have made it down
I'm not still kind of nail
so
I guess being on the negotiation
committee is the is the West Bonner
County
um School District Education Association
also
are they are you open to
negotiations down if that needs to come
to it I mean
I'm sorry I'm getting bad
right it just
yeah no
so
we're going down the wrong road but
um
I mean I
understand what you're saying
further discussion
yeah
um
we can't hear you true
what I can't remember what was that
what would be the difference between
negotiating
I'm trying to
um
I guess I'm up in the air as to whether
where we started on the negotiation I
I don't
to me I'm not part of the negotiations I
don't know nothing about it
but
I don't know what difference it makes
where we start at
whether we start at what
like what Jews are saying or if you
start at three and a half
and I know three and a half is never
stated
yeah
so so the difference is you see it
primarily in the unappropriated balances
of the contingency fund that we have
here and so
what I'm what I'm recommending that the
board do is
approve a budget that's that allows
there to be a remainder in the
contingency fund which can then be
reallocated someplace else if that's the
dis that's the outcome of it of a
negotiated agreement that's what I'm
recommending superintendent nurse said I
just like to make a comment I think that
we've already posted it we've requested
it of our our business manager I think
we leave it as is you can always
negotiate down but right now we're 31
certified teachers down and if we
start
taking those percentages away from our
Union
it's going to be
not good for us as a board and as a
school district my motion would be to
continue and approve the temporary
budget in place with as is all numbers
and I would second that at this point
as a good faith at good faith and also I
think we are trying to retain and
recruit I unders you know and I
understand we still are in negotiations
and I won't you know we've got to move
through negotiations and we can amend
this budget for us but I still this was
what was published so I'm going with the
one that was published in the paper
Mr chairman yeah
um
in
when I started looking at the budget
when I got put on the finance committee
a year ago
and at that meeting we weren't shown all
of the different General ledgers we
weren't shown all the paperwork and it
was like well it'll we'll get that back
to you later
from that point forward I've always
for me it was like really important to
just keep digging and finding what is
missing because there's been a lot that
hasn't made sense you look at some of
these
spreadsheets
and you know by our business manager's
own comments you know they're not
aligned they couldn't come out right and
for somebody who understands computer
talk that's that's great it makes sense
to them but when you're you're fiduciary
responsibility is to be able to tell all
of the citizens that all of the money is
being spent appropriately on educational
items for the students but you don't
have all that information in front of
you
it's really difficult to do that and
there's been an awful lot of comments
about oh well you know you just don't
know what you're doing and this that and
the other
if you're given good data to be able to
look at then yes you can find the
information but that's not what's
happened and I've been asking for a year
to be able to do that
as a fiduciary responsibility as a
trustee I want to know where the money
is spent I would think all of you want
to know where the money is spent
so
when we got that budget on the last
meeting to look at it again I still
didn't really have any data behind it
that could quantify what those numbers
are for
I want to be able to tell you
that it makes sense
no one told us when we looked at this
job
and it's a job
everybody says oh it's volunteer and it
should be easy yeah
okay this
is a serious job and I take that
responsibility a hundred percent
when you look at these numbers
they don't add up
I'm not sure that even this right here
like you said it's just a proposal I
understand that
and we have to put something forward
when I got to sit with the
superintendent last week for the first
time and actually hear some of his
comments on ideas on how to streamline
things in the district was like wow all
right maybe we can actually do a
business approach to this
this job
as long as I'm sitting in this chair and
maybe that's only 55 more days
but I want to be able to tell you the
truth
and I think that we all want to be able
to negotiate in good faith with
the staff that we have but we also need
to be able to look at how do we put
Sports where they should be on the
fields no one wants them going anywhere
but we've got to look at a serious
budget so we can figure out what we're
doing
thank you Mr
so
I do think people need to know the
numbers I mean one of the things is that
this really should have been publicized
I know we need to pay the bills but the
public has not seen what's in front of
our hands
and that's that's disconcerting to me
where they saw the other one that was
published it was published in the paper
and this was not posted like it should
have been
and that leaves us wide open for a
violation of open meeting because this
is definitely the summary statement for
the school budget was supposed to be
posted and people were supposed to be
able to see it so I mean that's my
concern if we need to prove something
right now
then the one that was posted and was
available through the pub you know last
meeting is the one that we need to do
because but if we don't need to be I
mean you know do the bills right now
then it needs to be posted again and
people need to see about not having
people see this budget even if it's very
slim it's not at all appropriate
yeah
yeah I I trust ecologist chairman uh
religious yielded the floor I just I
appreciate that that point it was my
intention to have this published it was
not
um
here's what I would here's here's let me
just share just so we're being really
transparent here's my real concern
my concern is that we're going to tap
the previous proposed budget completely
tapped out all of our contingency fund
and that is a a very very dangerous
thing to do given the condition that our
district is in financially
that means that we won't have money to
replace the boiler if that breaks that
means we won't have money to pay for
co-curricular activities if we want to
go that direction that is my biggest
concern is that we leave ourselves in a
position I'm also concerned that we by
extending a budget that has a salary
number in it that we've we may have
unintentionally
extended a property right to our staff
that the negotiations team has yet to
agree to that is my biggest concern and
so I don't want to put this board in a
position where it can't make a decision
later because legally it's bound by the
decision it made previously and
um
that is that is my biggest concern I I
appreciate the point about being
transparent on the budget it was that
was my direction to staff was to get
this to get this published and to make
it public so everyone could see it to
the extent that didn't happen there was
a lot of communication that was
happening today I'll I'll own that for
not having that got done but um
my primary concern is that we have a
budget that is actually able to be
manageable for us going forward and also
give us a negotiation team
the um room to be able to negotiate in
good faith with our association because
we need to do that because I completely
agree we need to retain as many staff as
we as we can and I understand that the
compensation packages is a is a big part
of that so
[Music]
yeah
I mean unfortunately this is a big deal
and this is the piece that everyone
wants transparency on
um I would say that we hold negotiations
tomorrow afternoon and see if we can get
through and come up with an answer and
then we figure out a budget but this
budget has to be
the budget has to be available to the
public before we vote on it bottom line
I mean it's not it was not seen it was
not noticed people could not comment on
it during public the public discussion
if we need to step up the negotiations
I should bring a sleeping bag
um so but um if we need to I know we
have a meeting tomorrow at six if we
need to try to have something earlier I
would think it was proposed
after chair Rutledge left to see if we
could meet we were going to meet Monday
but if if given this expeditious need to
pay the bills
if we need to try to hammer something
out maybe yes maybe we meet Friday
afternoon or whatever but
um I would say let's get this hammered
out in good faith let's get this
hammered out with the negotiations
committee because I can't vote on
something that the public hasn't seen in
front of them in terms of being
transparent on this you know if we're
doing you know if we're not even being
transparent if a chair Vice chair Brown
is saying that we're not being
transparent she can understand you know
she wants Digger dive into the numbers
not even posting this so people can see
it as a concern
so
[Applause]
so you suggested that we table this
until you can get
the motion's still on the table and it's
been second so I think we just the
motion has been to accept the budget as
is
her temporary
um as a temporary budget so we can pay
our bills
and then negotiations if we have to we
meet
well I wasn't happy about Friday but we
meet Friday
or tomorrow before this other meeting
because part of the next meeting the
work session tomorrow which is on budget
gaps and solutions is also dependent on
getting us through this situation so I
would
I would say the sooner the negotiations
meet we can meet in the terms of
negotiations come up with the fine some
final numbers and then move forward
um you know move forward with actual
salary and benefit numbers and then we
will know what our contingency or
unappropriated monies will be would be
my
um but if but that either we we go ahead
with the budget we've published and
people have seen it or we table it we I
re we rescind I resend my motion and we
table it and we get the negotiations
done as quickly as possible but I know
that that then ties superintendent
durst's hands because he um
I mean we need to pay bills and that's
the other side of the equation
so I moved that we table it
you guys come back with negotiations
I'll I'll second it
okay all is in favor of tabling the
motion please say aye aye
aye okay emotions table
okay
um
next is item D open meeting law
violation and self-pursuit to section
74-208 uh subsection 7 Idaho code
separation agreement
Mr chair I will vote I will make a
motion to bring this to the table the
the open meeting law violation self-cure
okay I have a motion to bring this to
the table do I have a second
okay uh trustee Barton seconds
uh debate
um
I realize there's some issue of whether
this is an open meeting law violation or
not but it was a messy motion that was
made and also I realized when I went
back to look at the information we gave
back in March we gave chair Rutledge
approval to go negotiate the separation
and the settlement agreement the
separation agreement with former
superintendent Branham when we came out
on
[Music]
the other last week which I think was
June
so
in June
um
that it was a messy it was a messy
motion that was made it didn't we didn't
include the number because we didn't
have it handy so I'd like to make a
motion
the first motion would be to move to
that we to the extent the actions of the
members of the Board of Trustees
inadvertently violated open meeting law
by not just disclosing the amount of
settlement between the district and
former employee May constitute a
violation of Idaho open meeting laws act
the Board of Trustees of West Bonner
County School District hereby moves at
the board self-recognized such a
violation as the open meeting acts and
self-cure situation pursuant to section
74 2087 Idaho code and that would be my
I further move
that the actions of the Board of
Trustees
in relation to such violations
be declared null and void and no force
and effect and so I would like to put
that on the table and then I would like
to make a motion to clean it up
okay
okay there's a motion on the table do I
have a second
I'll second that okay there's a first
and a second all those in favor or
debate first
there's no debate all those in favor of
vacating is that what we call it or uh
the
um
the current motion or the previous
motion please say aye
aye
aye those opposed okay and your second
motion my second motion as I move that
the board approves the final separation
agreement with former superintendent
Branham and final settlement amount and
I was told that you have that final
settlement amount that was
yes please Stephanie
foreign
the final amount was eight thousand
eight hundred and seventy one dollars
and six cents
okay eight hundred and
two thousand eight hundred and seventy
one
dollars and six cents six cents
okay and that would be the the final
settlement that was paid and the first
part was the um
buy out of her contract the remainder of
her contract and I think that was um
that is that part of it that's the final
that was the final that's the final
settlement amount
minus text
so that would be my motion on the table
is to put that out
okay so the motion on the table is to
um
approve the separation agreement with
Jacqueline Branham for the final
settlement of eight thousand eight
hundred and seventy one dollars and six
cents minus taxes
um
it's quite sure Brown seconds all those
in favor say aye
aye aye so as opposed okay done
music
okay next I need a motion to go into
executive session as provided for by
Idaho code
74-206 one subsection 8 and subsection B
personal matters
Mr chairman I make a motion to go into
executive session in this provided for
by Idaho code 74206
items A and B Personnel matters
sorry okay
roll call
I do do we have a second
second by Troy
here
trustee Hall here
Vice chair Brown here
chairman Rutledge here trustee Reinbold
here okay we're in executive session are
we going to the library yeah
[Music]
okay